Justification for selecting control variables

Number of high-impact crimes registered annually per 100,000 inhabitants: High-impact crimes can affect risk perception, investment, business performance, and decisions.

Economy of the entity: Considering that the Gross Domestic Product cannot be obtained at the municipal level, the Gross Censal Value Added (GVA) is used as a proxy variable for the state of the economy, which indicates how much value is added to products and services in the production process.

Average schooling of the population: The average educational level can affect the number and type of businesses established in the area. The availability of qualified personnel is pointed out by 9.4 % of the companies as a problem that hinders their growth (INEGI 2021a).

Percentage of informal firms: This variable is valid for all three dependent variables. First, informal firms tend to have more constraints, such as access to credit, staff training, and technology adoption, among others, which affect their productivity levels. Second, by evading regulations, informal firms can offer lower prices compared to formal firms, thus discouraging formality. Third, informal firms often have limited access to resources and financing, affecting their ability to grow.

Unemployment rate: the unemployment rate may impact the type of enterprises created considering that unemployed individuals may be more inclined to start a business as a form of survival, also called necessity entrepreneurs, rather than pursuing a specific business opportunity, known as opportunity entrepreneurs (Gutiérrez-Romero and Méndez 2017).

Poverty level: this is a crucial variable considering that areas with high levels of poverty may have limitations in education, entrepreneurial training, and access to financial services, which may influence these business metrics. In addition, such areas may be home to a higher proportion of informal enterprises and may face additional difficulties complying with regulations.

Inequality: According to Lecuna (2014; 2019), income inequality positively correlates with increased firm activity and creation. Pathak and Muralidharan (2017), on the other hand, argue that inequality is conducive to social entrepreneurship in environments with low-income mobility. They argue that the discrepancy between ideal conditions and reality drives compassionate responses, generating the creation of social enterprises by prosocially motivated individuals.

Population density: Population density indicates the concentration of people in a geographic area and can influence the demand for products and services and the availability of human resources. Controlling for this variable will allow us to assess how differences in population density may affect the characteristics of firms in terms of productivity, type, and size.
